The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, by L. Frank Baum

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The Wonderful Wizard of Oz

Author: L. Frank Baum

Release Date: February, 1993 [eBook #55]
[Most recently updated: October 19, 2020]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WONDERFUL WIZARD OF OZ ***

[Illustration]




The Wonderful Wizard of Oz

by L. Frank Baum


This book is dedicated to my good friend & comrade
My Wife
L.F.B.


Contents

 Introduction
 Chapter I. The Cyclone
 Chapter II. The Council with the Munchkins
 Chapter III. How Dorothy Saved the Scarecrow
 Chapter IV. The Road Through the Forest
 Chapter V. The Rescue of the Tin Woodman
 Chapter VI.  The Cowardly Lion
 Chapter VII. The Journey to the Great Oz
 Chapter VIII. The Deadly Poppy Field
 Chapter IX. The Queen of the Field Mice
 Chapter X. The Guardian of the Gates
 Chapter XI. The Emerald City of Oz
 Chapter XII. The Search for the Wicked Witch
 Chapter XIII. The Rescue
 Chapter XIV. The Winged Monkeys
 Chapter XV. The Discovery of Oz, the Terrible
 Chapter XVI. The Magic Art of the Great Humbug
 Chapter XVII. How the Balloon Was Launched
 Chapter XVIII. Away to the South
 Chapter XIX. Attacked by the Fighting Trees
 Chapter XX. The Dainty China Country
 Chapter XXI. The Lion Becomes the King of Beasts
 Chapter XXII. The Country of the Quadlings
 Chapter XXIII. Glinda The Good Witch Grants Dorothy’s Wish
 Chapter XXIV. Home Again




Introduction


Folklore, legends, myths and fairy tales have followed childhood
through the ages, for every healthy youngster has a wholesome and
instinctive love for stories fantastic, marvelous and manifestly
unreal. The winged fairies of Grimm and Andersen have brought more
happiness to childish hearts than all other human creations.

Yet the old time fairy tale, having served for generations, may now be
classed as “historical” in the children’s library; for the time has
come for a series of newer “wonder tales” in which the stereotyped
genie, dwarf and fairy are eliminated, together with all the horrible
and blood-curdling incidents devised by their authors to point a
fearsome moral to each tale. Modern education includes morality;
therefore the modern child seeks only entertainment in its wonder tales
and gladly dispenses with all disagreeable incident.

Having this thought in mind, the story of “The Wonderful Wizard of Oz”
was written solely to please children of today. It aspires to being a
modernized fairy tale, in which the wonderment and joy are retained and
the heartaches and nightmares are left out.

L. Frank Baum
Chicago, April, 1900.



The Wonderful Wizard of Oz




